# User Experience

The authentication service being described here does **not** have a user
experience. It is a back end web service that presents an API that other sofware
uses - typically a web gui app.

However it is useful to explain what user experience a web app can offer by using
this authentication service behind the scenes.

The potential new user will visit the DNAe web gui app in their browser, and will
be presented with a page dedicated to asking them to verify their DNAe email
address.  Until they have verified it, any other links or buttons they click will
take them to a screen that says they have to verify their address before they can
get in.

The form they see will invite them to enter the name part of their email address.
I.e. the bit before @dnae.com. When they enter this and submit the form, they'll
be taken to a new page that tells them they've been sent an autogenerated email
to <their-name>@dnae.com, and that they should click on the link that's in the
mail message to get access.

When they do open the mail in their email client of choice, and click on the
link, their default web browser will come up, pointing again to the web gui, but
this time with a page that says thank you very much - you've been granted access
and can continue to use the web gui app as normal.

If they click on the link after its 5-minute expiry, the page that comes up will
explain that this is the case, and offer them a button to re-send the email.

Eventually, maybe one month later, they will hit the end of the period for which
they have been granted access. At this point their user experience will revert to
being identical to that of a completely new potential user as described above.


